@menu
* Copying Conditions::          Your rights.
* Overview::                    Texinfo in brief.
* Writing a Texinfo File::      Format of a Texinfo source file.
* Beginning and Ending a File:: Beginning and end of a Texinfo file.
* Nodes::                       Writing nodes, the basic unit of Texinfo.
* Chapter Structuring::         Creating chapters, sections, appendices, etc.
* Cross References::            Writing cross-references.
* Marking Text::                Marking words and phrases as code, keyboard input, meta-syntactic variables, and the like.
* Quotations and Examples::     Block quotations, examples, etc.
* Lists and Tables::            Itemized or numbered lists, and tables.
* Special Displays::            Floating figures and footnotes.
* Indices::                     Creating indices.
* Insertions::                  Inserting @@-signs, braces, etc.
* Breaks::                      Forcing or preventing line and page breaks.
* Definition Commands::         Describing functions and the like uniformly.
* Internationalization::        Supporting languages other than English.
* Conditionals::                Specifying text for only some output cases.
* Defining New Texinfo Commands:: User-defined macros and aliases.
* Include Files::               How to incorporate other Texinfo files.
* Hardcopy::                    Output for paper, with @TeX{}.
* Generic Translator @command{texi2any}:: @command{texi2any}, an all-purpose converter.
* Creating and Installing Info Files:: Details on Info output.
* Generating HTML::             Details on HTML output.
@c * texi2any Output Customization:: Fine tuning with initialization files.

Appendices

* @@-Command Details::           Details of the Texinfo @@-commands.
* Tips::                        Hints on how to write a Texinfo document.
* Sample Texinfo Files::        Complete examples, including full texts.
* Texinfo Mode::                Using the GNU Emacs Texinfo mode.
* Headings::                    How to write page headings and footings.
* Catching Mistakes::           How to find mistakes in formatting.
* Info Format Specification::   Technical details of the Info file format.
* GNU Free Documentation License:: Copying this manual.
* Command and Variable Index::  A menu containing commands and variables.
* General Index::               A menu covering many topics.

@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Overview of Texinfo

* Reporting Bugs::              Submitting effective bug reports.
* Output Formats::              Overview of the supported output formats.
* Info Files::                  What is an Info file?
* Printed Books::               Characteristics of a printed book or manual.
* Adding Output Formats::       Man pages and implementing new formats.
* History::                     Acknowledgements, contributors and genesis.

Writing a Texinfo File

* Command Syntax::              @@-commands are used for formatting.
* Conventions::                 General rules for writing a Texinfo file.
* Comments::                    Writing comments and ignored text in general.
* Minimum::                     What a Texinfo file must have.
* Short Sample::                A short sample Texinfo file.

Beginning and Ending a Texinfo File

* Sample Beginning::            A sample beginning for a Texinfo file.
* Texinfo File Header::         The first lines.
* Document Permissions::        Ensuring your manual is free.
* Titlepage & Copyright Page::  Creating the title and copyright pages.
* Contents::                    How to create a table of contents.
* The Top Node::                Creating the `Top' node and master menu.
* Global Document Commands::    Affecting formatting throughout.
* Ending a File::               What is at the end of a Texinfo file?

Texinfo File Header

* First Line::                  The first line of a Texinfo file.
* Start of Header::             Formatting a region requires this.
* @code{@@setfilename}::                Tell Info the name of the Info file.
* @code{@@settitle}::                   Create a title for the printed work.
* End of Header::               Formatting a region requires this.

Document Permissions

* @code{@@copying}::                    Declare the document's copying permissions.
* @code{@@insertcopying}::              Where to insert the permissions.

Title and Copyright Pages

* @code{@@titlepage}::                  Create a title for the printed document.
* @code{@@titlefont @@center @@sp}::      The @code{@@titlefont}, @code{@@center}, and @code{@@sp} commands.
* @code{@@title @@subtitle @@author}::    The @code{@@title}, @code{@@subtitle}, and @code{@@author} commands.
* Copyright::                   How to write the copyright notice and include copying permissions.
* Heading Generation::          Turn on page headings after the title and copyright pages.

The `Top' Node and Master Menu

* Top Node Example::
* Master Menu Parts::

Global Document Commands

* @code{@@documentdescription}::        Document summary for the HTML output.
* @code{@@setchapternewpage}::          Start chapters on right-hand pages.
* @code{@@headings}::                   An option for turning headings on and off and double or single sided printing.
* @code{@@paragraphindent}::            Specify paragraph indentation.
* @code{@@firstparagraphindent}::       Suppressing first paragraph indentation.
* @code{@@exampleindent}::              Specify environment indentation.

Nodes

* Texinfo Document Structure::  How Texinfo manuals are usually arranged.
* Node Names::                  How to choose node names.
* Writing a Node::              How to write an @code{@@node} line.
* Node Line Requirements::      Keep names unique.
* First Node::                  How to write a `Top' node.
* @code{@@top} Command::                How to use the @code{@@top} command.
* Node Menu Illustration::      A diagram, and sample nodes and menus.
* @command{makeinfo} Pointer Creation::   Letting makeinfo determine node pointers.
* Menus::                       Listing subordinate nodes.

Menus

* Writing a Menu::              What is a menu?
* Menu Example::                Two and three part menu entries.
* Menu Location::               Menus go at the ends of nodes.
* Menu Parts::                  A menu entry has three parts.
* Less Cluttered Menu Entry::   Two part menu entry.
* Other Info Files::            How to refer to a different Info file.

Chapter Structuring

* Tree Structuring::            A manual is like an upside down tree @dots{}
* Structuring Command Types::   How to divide a manual into parts.
* @code{@@chapter}::                    Chapter structuring.
* @code{@@unnumbered @@appendix}::
* @code{@@majorheading @@chapheading}::
* @code{@@section}::
* @code{@@unnumberedsec @@appendixsec @@heading}::
* @code{@@subsection}::
* @code{@@unnumberedsubsec @@appendixsubsec @@subheading}::
* @code{@@subsubsection}::              Commands for the lowest level sections.
* @code{@@part}::                       Collections of chapters.
* Raise/lower sections::        How to change commands' hierarchical level.

Cross-references

* References::                  What cross-references are for.
* Cross Reference Commands::    A summary of the different commands.
* Cross Reference Parts::       A cross-reference has several parts.
* @code{@@xref}::                       Begin a reference with `See' @dots{}
* Referring to a Manual as a Whole::   Refer to an entire manual.
* @code{@@ref}::                        A reference for the last part of a sentence.
* @code{@@pxref}::                      How to write a parenthetical cross-reference.
* @code{@@anchor}::                     Defining arbitrary cross-reference targets
* @code{@@inforef}::                    How to refer to an Info-only file.
* @code{@@url}::                        How to refer to a uniform resource locator.
* @code{@@cite}::                       How to refer to books not in the Info system.

@code{@@xref}

* One Argument::                @code{@@xref} with one argument.
* Two Arguments::               @code{@@xref} with two arguments.
* Three Arguments::             @code{@@xref} with three arguments.
* Four and Five Arguments::     @code{@@xref} with four and five arguments.

@code{@@url}, @code{@@uref@{@var{url}[, @var{text}][, @var{replacement}]@}}

* @code{@@url} Examples::           Examples of using all the forms of @code{@@url}.
* URL Line Breaking::       How lines are broken within @code{@@url} text.
* @code{@@url} PDF Output Format::  A special option to hide links in PDF output.
* PDF Colors::              Colorizing urls and other links in PDF output.

Marking Text, Words and Phrases

* Indicating::                  How to indicate definitions, files, etc.
* Emphasis::                    How to emphasize text.

Indicating Definitions, Commands, etc.

* Useful Highlighting::         Highlighting provides useful information.
* @code{@@code}::                       Indicating program code.
* @code{@@kbd}::                        Showing keyboard input.
* @code{@@key}::                        Specifying keys.
* @code{@@samp}::                       Indicating a literal sequence of characters.
* @code{@@verb}::                       Indicating a verbatim sequence of characters.
* @code{@@var}::                        Indicating metasyntactic variables.
* @code{@@env}::                        Indicating environment variables.
* @code{@@file}::                       Indicating file names.
* @code{@@command}::                    Indicating command names.
* @code{@@option}::                     Indicating option names.
* @code{@@dfn}::                        Specifying definitions.
* @code{@@abbr}::                       Indicating abbreviations.
* @code{@@acronym}::                    Indicating acronyms.
* @code{@@indicateurl}::                Indicating an example url.
* @code{@@email}::                      Indicating an electronic mail address.

Emphasizing Text

* @code{@@emph @@strong}::               How to emphasize text in Texinfo.
* Smallcaps::                   How to use the small caps font.
* Fonts::                       Various font commands for printed output.

Quotations and Examples

* Block Enclosing Commands::    Different constructs for different purposes.
* @code{@@quotation}::                  Writing a quotation.
* @code{@@indentedblock}::              Block of text indented on left.
* @code{@@example}::                    Writing an example in a fixed-width font.
* @code{@@verbatim}::                   Writing a verbatim example.
* @code{@@verbatiminclude}::            Including a file verbatim.
* @code{@@lisp}::                       Illustrating Lisp code.
* @code{@@small@dots{}}::                   Examples in a smaller font.
* @code{@@display}::                    Writing an example in the current font.
* @code{@@format}::                     Writing an example without narrowed margins.
* @code{@@exdent}::                     Undo indentation on a line.
* @code{@@flushleft @@flushright}::      Pushing text flush left or flush right.
* @code{@@raggedright}::                Avoiding justification on the right.
* @code{@@noindent}::                   Preventing paragraph indentation.
* @code{@@indent}::                     Forcing paragraph indentation.
* @code{@@cartouche}::                  Drawing rounded rectangles around text.

Lists and Tables

* Introducing Lists::           Texinfo formats lists for you.
* @code{@@itemize}::                    How to construct a simple list.
* @code{@@enumerate}::                  How to construct a numbered list.
* Two-column Tables::           How to construct a two-column table.
* Multi-column Tables::         How to construct generalized tables.

Making a Two-column Table

* @code{@@table}::                      How to construct a two-column table.
* @code{@@ftable @@vtable}::             Automatic indexing for two-column tables.
* @code{@@itemx}::                      How to put more entries in the first column.

@code{@@multitable}: Multi-column Tables

* Multitable Column Widths::    Defining multitable column widths.
* Multitable Rows::             Defining multitable rows, with examples.

Special Displays

* Floats::                      Figures, tables, and the like.
* Images::                      Including graphics and images.
* Footnotes::                   Writing footnotes.

Floats

* @code{@@float}::                      Producing floating material.
* @code{@@caption @@shortcaption}::      Specifying descriptions for floats.
* @code{@@listoffloats}::               A table of contents for floats.

Inserting Images

* Image Syntax::
* Image Scaling::

Footnotes

* Footnote Commands::           How to write a footnote in Texinfo.
* Footnote Styles::             Controlling how footnotes appear in Info.

Indices

* Index Entries::               Choose different words for index entries.
* Predefined Indices::          Use different indices for different kinds of entries.
* Indexing Commands::           How to make an index entry.
* Printing Indices & Menus::    How to print an index in hardcopy and generate index menus in Info.
* Combining Indices::           How to combine indices.
* New Indices::                 How to define your own indices.

Combining Indices

* @code{@@syncodeindex}::               How to merge two indices, using @code{@@code} font for the merged-from index.
* @code{@@synindex}::                   How to merge two indices, using the roman font for the merged-from index.

Special Insertions

* Special Characters::          Inserting @@ @{@} , \ #
* Inserting Quote Characters::  Inserting left and right quotes, in code.
* Inserting Space::             Inserting the right amount of whitespace.
* Inserting Accents::           Inserting accents and special characters.
* Inserting Quotation Marks::   Inserting quotation marks.
* Inserting Subscripts and Superscripts:: Inserting sub/superscripts.
* Inserting Math::              Formatting mathematical expressions.
* Glyphs for Text::             Inserting dots, bullets, currencies, etc.
* Glyphs for Programming::      Indicating results of evaluation, expansion of macros, errors, etc.
* Inserting Unicode::           Inserting a Unicode character by code point.

Special Characters: Inserting @@ @{@} , \ #

* Inserting an Atsign::         @code{@@@@}, @code{@@atchar@{@}}.
* Inserting Braces::            @code{@@@{ @@@}}, @code{@@l rbracechar@{@}}.
* Inserting a Comma::           , and @code{@@comma@{@}}.
* Inserting a Backslash::       \ and @code{@@backslashchar@{@}}.
* Inserting a Hashsign::        # and @code{@@hashchar@{@}}.

Inserting Space

* Multiple Spaces::             Inserting multiple spaces.
* Not Ending a Sentence::       Sometimes a . doesn't end a sentence.
* Ending a Sentence::           Sometimes it does.
* @code{@@frenchspacing}::              Specifying end-of-sentence spacing.
* @code{@@dmn}::                        Formatting a dimension.

Glyphs for Text

* @code{@@TeX @@LaTeX}::                 The @TeX{} logos.
* @code{@@copyright}::                  The copyright symbol (c in a circle).
* @code{@@registeredsymbol}::           The registered symbol (R in a circle).
* @code{@@dots}::                       How to insert ellipses: @dots{} and @enddots{}
* @code{@@bullet}::                     How to insert a bullet: @bullet{}
* @code{@@euro}::                       How to insert the euro currency symbol.
* @code{@@pounds}::                     How to insert the pounds currency symbol.
* @code{@@textdegree}::                 How to insert the degrees symbol.
* @code{@@minus}::                      How to insert a minus sign.
* @code{@@geq @@leq}::                   How to insert greater/less-than-or-equal signs.

Glyphs for Programming

* Glyphs Summary::
* @code{@@result}::                     How to show the result of expression.
* @code{@@expansion}::                  How to indicate an expansion.
* @code{@@print}::                      How to indicate generated output.
* @code{@@error}::                      How to indicate an error message.
* @code{@@equiv}::                      How to indicate equivalence.
* @code{@@point}::                      How to indicate the location of point.
* Click Sequences::             Inserting GUI usage sequences.

Forcing and Preventing Breaks

* Break Commands::              Summary of break-related commands.
* Line Breaks::                 Forcing line breaks.
* @code{@@- @@hyphenation}::             Helping @TeX{} with hyphenation points.
* @code{@@allowcodebreaks}::            Controlling line breaks within @@code text.
* @code{@@w}::                          Preventing unwanted line breaks in text.
* @code{@@tie}::                        Inserting an unbreakable but varying space.
* @code{@@sp}::                         Inserting blank lines.
* @code{@@page}::                       Forcing the start of a new page.
* @code{@@group}::                      Preventing unwanted page breaks.
* @code{@@need}::                       Another way to prevent unwanted page breaks.

Definition Commands

* Def Cmd Template::            Writing descriptions using definition commands.
* Def Cmd Continuation Lines::  Continuing the heading over source lines.
* Optional Arguments::          Handling optional and repeated arguments.
* @code{@@deffnx}::                     Group two or more `first' lines.
* Def Cmds in Detail::          Reference for all the definition commands.
* Def Cmd Conventions::         Conventions for writing definitions.
* Sample Function Definition::  An example.

The Definition Commands

* Functions Commands::          Commands for functions and similar entities.
* Variables Commands::          Commands for variables and similar entities.
* Typed Functions::             Commands for functions in typed languages.
* Typed Variables::             Commands for variables in typed languages.
* Data Types::                  The definition command for data types.
* Abstract Objects::            Commands for object-oriented programming.

Object-Oriented Programming

* Variables: Object-Oriented Variables.
* Methods:   Object-Oriented Methods.

Internationalization

* @code{@@documentlanguage}::           Declaring the current language.
* @code{@@documentencoding}::           Declaring the input encoding.

Conditionally Visible Text

* Conditional Commands::        Text for a given format.
* Conditional Not Commands::    Text for any format other than a given one.
* Raw Formatter Commands::      Using raw formatter commands.
* Inline Conditionals::         Brace-delimited conditional text.
* @code{@@set @@clear @@value}::          Variable tests and substitutions.
* Testing for Texinfo Commands:: Testing if a Texinfo command is available.
* Conditional Nesting::         Using conditionals inside conditionals.

Flags: @code{@@set}, @code{@@clear}, conditionals, and @code{@@value}

* @code{@@set @@value}::                 Expand a flag variable to a string.
* @code{@@ifset @@ifclear}::             Format a region if a flag is set.
* @code{@@inlineifset @@inlineifclear}:: Brace-delimited flag conditionals.
* @code{@@value} Example::              An easy way to update edition information.

Defining New Texinfo Commands

* Defining Macros::             Defining and undefining new commands.
* Invoking Macros::             Using a macro, once you've defined it.
* Macro Details::               Limitations of Texinfo macros.
* @code{@@alias}::                      Command aliases.
* @code{@@definfoenclose}::             Customized highlighting.
* External Macro Processors::   @code{#line} directives.

External Macro Processors: Line Directives

* @samp{#line} Directive::
* TeX: @samp{#line} and @TeX{}.
* Syntax: @samp{#line} Syntax Details.

Include Files

* Using Include Files::         How to use the @code{@@include} command.
* @code{texinfo-multiple-files-update}:: How to create and update nodes and menus when using included files.
* Include Files Requirements::  @code{texinfo-multiple-files-update} needs.
* Sample Include File::         A sample outer file with included files within it; and a sample included file.
* Include Files Evolution::     How use of the @code{@@include} command has changed over time.

Formatting and Printing Hardcopy

* Use @TeX{}::                     Use @TeX{} to format for hardcopy.
* Format with @command{texi2dvi}::        The simplest way to format.
* Format with @command{tex}/@command{texindex}::    Formatting with explicit shell commands.
* Print with @command{lpr}::              How to print.
* Within Emacs::                How to format and print from an Emacs shell.
* Texinfo Mode Printing::       How to format and print in Texinfo mode.
* Compile-Command::             How to print using Emacs's compile command.
* Requirements Summary::        @TeX{} formatting requirements summary.
* Preparing for @TeX{}::           What to do before you use @TeX{}.
* Overfull hboxes::             What are and what to do with overfull hboxes.
* @code{@@smallbook}::                  How to print small format books and manuals.
* A4 Paper::                    How to print on A4 or A5 paper.
* @code{@@pagesizes}::                  How to print with customized page sizes.
* Cropmarks and Magnification:: How to print marks to indicate the size of pages and how to print scaled up output.
* PDF Output::                  Portable Document Format output.
* Obtaining @TeX{}::               How to obtain @TeX{}.

Format with @command{tex}/@command{texindex}

* Formatting Partial Documents::
* Details of @command{texindex}::

@command{texi2any}: The Generic Translator for Texinfo

* Reference Implementation::    @command{texi2any}: the reference implementation.
* Invoking @command{texi2any}::           Running the translator from a shell.
* @command{texi2any} Printed Output::     Calling @command{texi2dvi}.
* Pointer Validation::          How to check that pointers point somewhere.
* Customization Variables::     Configuring @command{texi2any}.
* Internationalization of Document Strings:: Translating program-inserted text.
* Invoking @command{pod2texi}::           Translating Perl pod to Texinfo.
* @command{texi2html}::                   An ancestor of @command{texi2any}.

Customization Variables

* Commands: Customization Variables for @@-Commands.
* Options:  Customization Variables and Options.
* HTML:     HTML Customization Variables.
* Other:    Other Customization Variables.

Creating and Installing Info Files

* Creating an Info File::
* Installing an Info File::

Creating an Info File

* @command{makeinfo} Advantages::         @command{makeinfo} provides better error checking.
* @code{makeinfo} in Emacs::           How to run @code{makeinfo} from Emacs.
* @code{texinfo-format} commands::     Two Info formatting commands written in Emacs Lisp are an alternative to @code{makeinfo}.
* Batch Formatting::            How to format for Info in Emacs batch mode.
* Tag and Split Files::         How tagged and split files help Info to run better.

Installing an Info File

* Directory File::              The top level menu for all Info files.
* New Info File::               Listing a new Info file.
* Other Info Directories::      How to specify Info files that are located in other directories.
* Installing Dir Entries::      How to specify what menu entry to add to the Info directory.
* Invoking @command{install-info}::       @code{install-info} options.

Generating HTML

* HTML Translation::       Details of the HTML output.
* HTML Splitting::         How HTML output is split.
* HTML CSS::               Influencing HTML output with Cascading Style Sheets.
* HTML Xref::              Cross-references in HTML output.

HTML Cross-references

* Link Basics:       HTML Xref Link Basics.
* Node Expansion:    HTML Xref Node Name Expansion.
* Command Expansion: HTML Xref Command Expansion.
* 8-bit Expansion:   HTML Xref 8-bit Character Expansion.
* Mismatch:          HTML Xref Mismatch.
* Configuration:     HTML Xref Configuration. htmlxref.cnf.
* Preserving links:  HTML Xref Link Preservation. MANUAL-noderename.cnf.

Sample Texinfo Files

* Short Sample Texinfo File::
* GNU Sample Texts::
* Verbatim Copying License::
* All-permissive Copying License::

Using Texinfo Mode

* Texinfo Mode Overview::       How Texinfo mode can help you.
* Emacs Editing::               Texinfo mode adds to GNU Emacs' general purpose editing features.
* Inserting::                   How to insert frequently used @@-commands.
* Showing the Structure::       How to show the structure of a file.
* Updating Nodes and Menus::    How to update or create new nodes and menus.
* Info Formatting::             How to format for Info.
* Printing::                    How to format and print part or all of a file.
* Texinfo Mode Summary::        Summary of all the Texinfo mode commands.

Updating Nodes and Menus

* Updating Commands::           Five major updating commands.
* Updating Requirements::       How to structure a Texinfo file for using the updating command.
* Other Updating Commands::     How to indent descriptions, insert missing nodes lines, and update nodes in sequence.

Page Headings

* Headings Introduced::         Conventions for using page headings.
* Heading Format::              Standard page heading formats.
* Heading Choice::              How to specify the type of page heading.
* Custom Headings::             How to create your own headings and footings.

Catching Mistakes

* @command{makeinfo} Preferred::          @code{makeinfo} finds errors.
* Debugging with Info::         How to catch errors with Info formatting.
* Debugging with @TeX{}::          How to catch errors with @TeX{} formatting.
* Using @code{texinfo-show-structure}:: How to use @code{texinfo-show-structure}.
* Using @code{occur}::                 How to list all lines containing a pattern.
* Running @code{Info-validate}::       How to find badly referenced nodes.

Finding Badly Referenced Nodes

* Using @code{Info-validate}::         How to run @code{Info-validate}.
* Unsplit::                     How to create an unsplit file.
* Tagifying::                   How to tagify a file.
* Splitting::                   How to split a file manually.

Info Format Specification

* General: Info Format General Layout.
* Text:    Info Format Text Constructs.

Info Format General Layout

* Whole:           Info Format Whole Manual. Split vs.@: nonsplit manuals.
* Preamble:        Info Format Preamble.
* Indirect:        Info Format Indirect Table.
* Tag table:       Info Format Tag Table.
* Local variables: Info Format Local Variables.
* Regular nodes:   Info Format Regular Nodes.

Info Format Text Constructs

* Menu:  Info Format Menu.
* Image: Info Format Image.
* Printindex: Info Format Printindex.
* Xref:  Info Format Cross Reference.

@end detailmenu
@end menu
